---
layout: "../layouts/AboutMe.astro"
title: "About Me"
description: "The story of Gabriel David Lopez"
updatedDate: "December 07 2022"
heroImage: "/oc.png"
---

<div data-aos="zoom-in-down">
I was born and raised in beautiful Orange County, California. (Location of the above picture) My first taste of programming came in high school. I had a free class period my senior year so my counselor or whatever school software decided that I was gonna take a Computer Science class. My teacher was not an experienced developer himself but it was the excitement and energy that he brought that first got me interested in the class. He encouraged me and I really felt like I found what I was gonna do for the rest of my life. Originally I was gonna study History in college but about half way through my senior year I decided that I was gonna become a programmer and so I went to University for my Bachelors of Science in Computer Science.
<div/>

<div data-aos="zoom-in-up">
I qualified for the work study program at my University and I chose the <a target="_blank" href="https://www.makerspaces.com/what-is-a-makerspace/">Makerspace</a> program in the library. The Makerspace is a space where students can gather to use technology to create projects like led lights, rc cars, 3D printing, laser cutting or play VR games. I personally made a LED acrylic Makerspace sign with the laser cutter to both engrave the acrylic and cut wood so I could house the acrylic sign and have a place to put led lights to light the acrylic sign. I researched machine learning and was able to generate <a target="_blank" href="https://boostlabs.com/blog/what-are-word-clouds-value-simple-visualizations/">word clouds</a> based off of a sample data set of questions students asked on the libraries website. I also used the <a target="_blank" href="https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/ocr/">OCR</a>  in the  <a target="_blank" href="https://cloud.google.com/vision">Google Vision API</a> in my senior project to turn text on a paper to instructions to maneuver a rc car. I graduated in three and a half years and was released to the real world.
<div>

<div data-aos="zoom-in-down">
I did not find a job immediately. I worked at Costco during college and I did so after college for about 6 months before I got a job as a engineer. Well that was what they told be but when I got assigned my first project, I was the <a target="_blank" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_quality_assurance">Quality Assurance</a> engineer. I did not write code but I did check everyone's works so I was learning at a very fast rate. From the beginning, I felt like I was doing QA with the heart of a dev and I was able to show that I could do both QA and development work, which technically made me more of a  <a target="_blank" href="https://www.techtarget.com/searchsoftwarequality/tip/What-are-an-SDETs-roles-and-responsibilities">SDENT</a>. I was happy to be able to contribute as a developer. Six more months down the line, I get brought into a random personal meeting with the project manager, technical lead of the project and my dev lead. To say I was nervous about it would be an understatement as I was given no context to this meeting so obviously I was thinking about the worst case scenario. Apparently, we had a developer move on and the project management team found it easier to move me to full time dev and bring in a new QA person to replace me. That was a major personal milestone and it meant alot to have my work pay off. So many hours of thinking about for loops and greedy algorithms and debugging every level of the <a target="_blank" href="https://www.imperva.com/learn/application-security/osi-model/">OSI</a> model has put me in this position. I was a developer on that project unitl the day that project was ended by the client for reasons outside the control of the development team.
<div/>

<div data-aos="zoom-in-up">
I was on the bench for 6 months. I took this time to become certified as a <a target="_blank" href="https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-devops-engineer-professional/">AWS Professional Devops Engineer</a>. I am already certified as an <a target="_blank" href="https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-developer-associate/"> AWS Associate Developer</a> but I wanted to understand how Devops could help me become a better developer and give me more of an architect point of view. I guess my technical lead and project manager could not get enough of me because when they had an opening to fill a role on their new project, they suggested my name and I was brought on. I am utilized to my skill set which is that I lead all QA activity on the project with one other QA person and I develop on top of that. I do not mind Qa nor does it bother me as long as I can develop. Being QA and a developer on the same project gives me a special insight on how the project is doing. I am both ensuring that the client gets a quality product, I am also making that quality product. I enjoy this team and I enjoy my fellow developers that I work with. I am very optimistic that this project will be beneficial for all parties involved.
<div/>